The Rookie is a 1990 buddy cop film directed by Clint Eastwood and produced by Howard G. Kazanjian, Steven Siebert and David Valdes. It was written from a screenplay conceived by Boaz Yakin and Scott Spiegel. The film stars Charlie Sheen, Clint Eastwood, Raul Julia, Sonia Braga, Lara Flynn Boyle, and Tom Skerritt. Eastwood plays a veteran police officer teamed up with a younger detective played by Sheen (the rookie of the title), whose intent is to take down a German crime lord in downtown Los Angeles following months of investigation into an exotic car theft ring. Shot entirely on location in California during the spring of 1990, the film is distinctly remembered for its elaborate pyrotechnics and extravagant stunt work. The film crew's reliance on expensive sets and elaborate stunt equipment outweighed the need for utilizing extensive CGI special effects during production. Distributed by Warner Bros., the film never spawned a sequel. The Rookie premiered in theaters nationwide in the United States and Canada on December 7, 1990 grossing $21,633,874 in ticket receipts. The film was overshadowed by the continuing success of Home Alone, which opened in theaters three weeks earlier and ended up being one of the top 100 highest grossing films of all time. Although considered a mild financial success, The Rookie was met with generally lackluster reviews before its initial screening in cinemas. After its theatrical run, it failed to receive award nominations for acting or production merits from accredited motion picture organizations in any category.
Titanic is a 1997 American epic romance disaster film directed, written, co-produced, and co-edited by James Cameron. A fictionalized account of the sinking of the RMS Titanic, it stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet as members of different social classes who fall in love aboard the ship during its ill-fated maiden voyage. Cameron's inspiration for the film came from his fascination with shipwrecks; he felt a love story interspersed with the human loss would be essential to convey the emotional impact of the disaster. Production began in 1995, when Cameron shot footage of the actual Titanic wreck. The modern scenes on the research vessel were shot on board the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh, which Cameron had used as a base when filming the wreck. Scale models, computer-generated imagery, and a reconstruction of the Titanic built at Playas de Rosarito in Baja California were used to re-create the sinking. The film was partially funded by Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox. It was the most expensive film made at that time, with an estimated budget of $200 million. Upon its release on December 19, 1997, Titanic achieved critical and commercial success. Nominated for fourteen Academy Awards, it tied All About Eve (1950) for the most Oscar nominations, and won eleven, including the awards for Best Picture and Best Director, tying Ben Hur (1959) for the most Oscars won by a single film. With an initial worldwide gross of over $1.84 billion, Titanic was the first film to reach the billion-dollar mark. It remained the highest-grossing film of all time until Cameron's 2009 film Avatar surpassed it in 2010. A 3D version of Titanic, released on April 4, 2012 to commemorate the centennial of the sinking, earned it an additional $343.6 million worldwide, pushing the film's worldwide total to $2.18 billion. It became the second film to gross more than $2 billion worldwide (after Avatar).
